
[Illustration:

    _THE_
    Compendious Emblematist;
    _OR_
    WRITING and DRAWING
    made Easy,
    _Amusing and Instructive_.
    The Whole Engrav'd by the
    BEST HANDS

    W. Chinnery Sec.
    _T Hutchinson_]




    Writing and Drawing,
    _made Easy_,
    AMUSING and INSTRUCTIVE.

    Containing

    _The Whole Alphabet in all the Characters now us'd_
    Both in Printing and Penmanship;
    _Each illustrated by Emblematic Devices and Moral Copies,
    Calculated for the Use of Schools, and_
    Curiously Engrav'd, by the Best Hands.

    _Let every Day some labour'd Line produce
    Command of Hand is gain'd by constant use_

    _LONDON._

    Printed for and Sold by T. Bellamy, Bookseller at Kingston
            upon Thames; as also
    by most of the Book-sellers and Print-sellers in Town and Country.




SUBSCRIBERS NAMES.


    A.
    MR. Thomas Allen

    B.
    The _Rev._ Mr. Thomas Bellamy
    Charles Betke, _Esq._
    Mr. R. Bryan
    _Miss_ Emma Maria Brocas
    Mr. ---- Brookes, _Surgeon_

    C.
    James Clark, _Esq._
    Mr. James Comber
    Mr. Robert Chambers
    Mr. Benjamin Cole

    D.
    Mr. Charles Delafoss
    Mr. Christopher Goddard
    Mr. John Frederick Duill
    Mr. ---- Dupuis

    F.
    Mr. Charles Fleaureau
    Mr. ---- Fulling
    Mr. ---- Faden

    G.
    Richard Garbrand, _Esq._
    Mr. John Glover
    Miss Jane Gore
    Mr. Abraham Goodwin
    Mr. ---- Garvaise, 4 Books
    Mrs. ---- Girardot
    Mrs. ---- Garvaise
    Mrs. Judith Garvaise
    Mrs. Elizabeth Garvaise

    H.
    Thomas Howlett, _Esq._
    Mr. John Halford, 2 Books
    Mr. Thomas Hill
    Mr. John Hardinge
    Mr. William Hamilton
    Mr. Thomas Harrache
    Mr. Thomas Hemming

    I.
    Thomas Jones, _Esq._

    K.
    John Kirrill, _Esq._
    Mrs. ---- Knipe, 2 Books

    L.
    Mr. Thomas Lupton
    Mr. Charles Laggatt
    Mrs. ---- Lawrence
    Mrs. Easter Lacam

    M.
    _Right Hon. Lady_ Betty Montague
    _Lady_ ---- Musgrove
    ---- Montague, _Esq._
    Mr. Henry Morland
    Mr. Charles M'Clarren
    Mr. Samuel Mettayer
    Mrs. Ann Mettayer
    Mrs. ---- Montague

    N.
    James Norman, _Esq._
    Mr. Edward North
    Mrs. Anne Norman
    Miss Anne Norman

    P.

    Mr. Francis Pitt
    Mr. ---- Palmer
    Mr. Hinckley Phipps

    R.
    Mr. William Rose

    S.
    John Stow, _Esq._
    Mr. Robert Shepheard
    Mr. Duncan Stewart
    Mr. ---- Sabatier
    Mr. James Soleirol
    Mrs. Mary Stewart
    Mrs. Anne Samson

    T.
    Mr. ---- Tomlinson

    W.
    Mrs. Grace White
    Mrs. Elizabeth Walton
    Miss Anne Warren




PREFACE.


THE Usefulness of Books calculated for the Improvement of young People
in the Arts of _Writing_ and _Drawing_, are too evident to need being
insisted upon.--We shall therefore only beg leave in a very concise
Manner to point out the particular Merits of the Work we here offer the
Public.

FIRST, then, it is humbly proposed as an Assistant to School-Masters;
for as the greatest Part of these our Moral Copies were first wrote by
that able and experienced Penman, Mr. _William Chinnery_ Senior, and
engraved from thence by an Artist very eminent in his Way; they will
save such Masters the Trouble as well as Time of writing a Variety of
Copies for their young Pupils with their own Hands.

AGAIN, this little Book will undoubtedly be found of infinite Advantage
to such Persons, as either cannot write at all, or but very
indifferently, and have no Opportunity of being instructed by any able
Master; for here they will find not only all the Characters made use of
in Printing; but those, likewise, in all the Hands that are most useful,
and most practised throughout _Great-Britain_ in the Way of Trade and
Business.

AND, that No One, who may be desirous of Improvement in the two
important Branches above mentioned, may want that Aid or Assistance,
which this Attempt is so well calculated to afford them, the Editor has
set so low a Price upon it, that it will fall within the Compass of
almost every one's Purchase:--And it must be acknowledged, by all who
are Judges of the Expense of such a Number of Plates, and those,
likewise, so well executed, that it is the very cheapest Book of the
Kind that has ever hitherto been published.

AS to our Ornamental, Emblematic Devices, which we have ventured to call
our DRAWING-BOOK, and we hope with some Degree of Propriety, it has One
Thing, if Nothing more, to recommend it; namely, that Not One Single
Design ever appeared in public before; and we apprehend, that the Whole
is exhibited in an accurate and workmanlike Manner:--Such, therefore, as
it is, it is freely submitted to the Censure or Approbation of the
Public, by

_Their Most Obedient Servant_,

[Illustration: Signature: Thos. Bellamy]

[Illustration]




[Illustration: _THE_ ANT.

DILIGENCE, FRUGALITY.]


The Ant.

    Who can observe th' industrious Frugal Ant
    And not provide in Time for future Want?

Application.

Industry is All in All.




[Illustration: _THE_ Butter-fly.

VANITY and SELF-CONCEIT.]


The Butter-fly

    What is the gawdy Butter-fly?... At best
    A worthless Caterpillar richly drest.

Application.

All is not Gold that glitters.




[Illustration: THE Crocodile.

DISSIMULATION INFIDELITY]


The Crocodile.

    As the false Crocodile bemoans his Prey;
    So weeps the Heir on his Sire's dying Day.

Application.

There is no Foe like a False Friend.




[Illustration: The Dog.

VIGILANCE and FIDELITY.]


THE DOG.

    The Dog that's true and watchful in his Kind,
    With Love and Gratitude should fire our Mind.

APPLICATION.

Adversity is the Touchstone of Friendship.




[Illustration: The Eagle.

HONOUR and AMBITION.]


THE EAGLE.

    As Eagles, if well taught, ascend the Skies;
    So Youth, by Dint of Education rise.

APPLICATION.

Manners make the Man.




[Illustration: _THE_ Fox.

HYPOCRISY and PROPHANESS.]


THE FOX.

    When the Fox preaches, 'tis the Geese he wants:
    So Hypocrites for Gain turn formal Saints.

APPLICATION.

There is no Guard against an Impostor




[Illustration: _THE_ GRASS HOPPER.

INDOLENCE and INACTIVITY.]


THE Grass-hopper.

    In Mirth the Grass-hopper spends all the Spring,
    But is a giddy, thoughtless, lazy Thing.

Application.

Indolence is the Inlet to all Misfortunes.




[Illustration: _THE HEN_

PARENTAL INDULGENCE.]


_THE_ Hen.

    The Hen and ev'ry Bird that flies at large,
    Instructs each Female in a Parent's Charge.

Application.

No Nurse like the indulgent Mother.




[Illustration: _THE_ Jay.

The PLAGUES of WEDLOCK.]


_THE_ JAY

    The Jay is for his noisy Nonsense priz'd,
    But the loud female Tatler is despis'd.

Application.

No Torment like a wedded Shrew.




[Illustration: The KITE.

TYRANNY and OPPRESSION.]


_THE_ KITE.

    As Kites without Remorse devour their Prey;
    So Tyrants take their Subjects Lives away.

Application.

Might for the most part overcomes Right.




[Illustration: THE _LAMB_

RURAL PASTIME.]


THE LAMB

    The harmless Lamb that in the Meadow plays,
    The Picture of true Innocence displays.

Application

Chearfulness is the constant Attendant on Innocence




[Illustration: _The_ MERMAID

The FATAL CHARMER.]


THE MERMAID,

    Sweet is the Mermaid's Voice and fair her Face,
    But certain Death attends her Soft Embrace.

Application

Beauty without Virtue is a painted Sepulchre.




[Illustration: _THE_ Nightingale.

The Charms of Solitude.]


_THE_ Nightingale.

    When Philomela warbles through the Grove,
    All Nature Smiles, and the Whole World's in Love.

APPLICATION

The Charms of Music are irresistible




[Illustration: _THE_ Ostrich.

PARENTAL NEGLIGENCE.]


_THE_ Ostrich.

    The thoughtless Ostrich drops her Eggs, nor cares
    Who tramples on, or who her Offspring rears.

APPLICATION.

Hard-hearted Parents are worse than Infidels.




[Illustration: _The_ PELICAN.

The true PATRIOT.]


The PELICAN.

    The tender Pelican well pleas'd, will bleed,
    Whilst her Sick Young Ones on her Vitals feed.

APPLICATION.

A good King is the Darling of his Subjects.




[Illustration: The QUAIL.

DIVINE BENEFICENCE.]


The QUAIL.

    The Jews by Miracle were fed with Quails:
    Who prays, and puts his Trust in Heav'n prevails.

APPLICATION.

God's Providence is over all his Creatures.




[Illustration: The ROSE

TRANSIENT ENJOYMENTS.]


_THE_ ROSE.

    The lovely Rose Strikes ev'ry Eye To-Day;
    But e'er To-Morrow dawns her Charms decay.

APPLICATION.

Beauty is a fair but fading Flower.




[Illustration: A SHIP in a STORM

CIVIL DISCORD.]


A Ship in a Storm.

    As Ships by Tempests driv'n on Rocks are tost,
    So Kingdoms are by Civil Discords lost

APPLICATION.

Factions too often ruine the most potent States.




[Illustration: The TURTLE-DOVE.

Connubial AFFECTION.]


The TURTLE-DOVE.

    In constant Friendship and connubial Love,
    We learn our Duty from the Turtle Dove

APPLICATION.

A virtuous Wife is an inestimable Treasure




[Illustration: The VULTUR.

VIOLENCE and INJUSTICE.]


The VULTUR

    As greedy Vulturs prey upon the Heart,
    So conscious Guilt creates incessant Smart.

APPLICATION.

Conscious Guilt is the Emphasis of Hell.




[Illustration: The WAR HORSE.

COURAGE and CONQUEST.]


_THE_ War-Horse.

    Fearless the War-horse, to the Battle flies,
    And Hero-like, or vanquishes or dies.

_APPLICATION._

The Virtuous Man is always intrepid




[Illustration: XERXES.

PRIDE and FOLLY.]


XERXES.

    Xerxes to shew his Folly and his pride,
    To bind the Hellespont in Fetters try'd.

Application.

Pride was never made for Man.




[Illustration: YOUTH.

HARMLESS PASTIMES.]


YOUTH.

    As Lands, if unmanur'd, to Ruin run;
    So Youth, if once misguided, are undone.

Application.

Ill Habits, once contracted, can seldom be remov'd.




[Illustration: _A_ ZEALOT.

PAPAL BARBARITY.]


A ZEALOT.

    Religion is a pure and Spotless Dame;
    But Zeal, misguided, is a furious Flame.

Application

Bigotry is the Parent of Enthusiasm.


       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Notes:

Obvious missing periods were replaced.

Subscriber's names, the unusual order of the names was retained. For
example, "Goddard" coming before "Duill" and "Faden" coming after
"Fulling."






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Writing and Drawing Made Easy, Amusing
and Instructive, by William Chinnery and T. Hutchinson

